1) Why Data Mining?

->We live in a world where vast amounts of data are collected daily. Analyzing such data
is an important need. With the help of data mining we can meet this need by
providing tools to discover knowledge from data.

*** Major sources of abundant data -
Business: Web, e-commerce, transactions, stocks, … 
Science: Remote sensing, bioinformatics, scientific simulation, … 
Society and everyone: news, digital cameras, YouTube


2) What is data mining?
->Data mining is the process of discovering interesting patterns and
knowledge from large amounts of data. The data sources can include databases, data
warehouses, the Web, other information repositories, or data that are streamed into the
system dynamically.


*****Many people treat data mining as a synonym for another popularly used term,
knowledge discovery from data, or KDD while others view data mining as merely an
essential step in the process of knowledge discovery. The knowledge discovery process is
shown in Figure 1.4 as an iterative sequence of the following steps:
1. Data cleaning (to remove noise and inconsistent data)
2. Data integration (where multiple data sources may be combined)
3. Data selection (where data relevant to the analysis task are retrieved from the
database)
4. Data transformation (where data are transformed and consolidated into forms
appropriate for mining by performing summary or aggregation operations)4
5. Data mining (an essential process where intelligent methods are applied to extract
data patterns)
6. Pattern evaluation (to identify the truly interesting patterns representing knowledge
based on interestingness measures—see Section 1.4.6)
7. Knowledge presentation (where visualization and knowledge representation techniques
are used to present mined knowledge to users)


3)Descriptive mining tasks characterize properties of the data in a target data set. 
Predictive mining tasks perform induction on the current data in order to make predictions.

4) Data Mining Functions 
1)Generalization - Information integration and data warehouse construction
Data cleaning, transformation, integration, and multidimensional data model
2)Association and Correlation Analysis  - 
3)Classification - Describe and distinguish classes or concepts for future prediction
4)Cluster Analysis - Group data to form new categories 
5)Outlier Analysis - Outlier: A data object that does not comply with the general behavior of the data